Let's back up, though. You start the first grade,
and where was the school? What school did you
attend, and where was it? It was in
the big old building.
I don't need a map. But it was on campus. Yeah, right
there by the By the pavilion? Well, down from the
pavilion. Let's see.
Well,
see, this was a quality road right here. Like that.
You got up here and you went that way and you went in
behind the academic building. Okay. And this
built a road right here. Mm-hmm. It's the last
building on this side. One, there's another one
right there beside it. One of them was for the, I
think, for the extension service, and one was for
the... Now, I remember where Old Science Hall was.
Was it near that? Old Science Hall. Mm-hmm. The red
brick building tore down about 40 years ago? No,
there were two. I think they're still standing.
Okay. About how many first graders were there
year-to-year?
They was, oh,
I guess they were about 25. Now, and were they from
all across this south part of the county, or were
they only from the campus? No, they brought in the
ones from the south.
There were farms all through this area, see? And
those kids walked to school. What was the name of
the, was it the A&M Consolidated School then? What
was the name of it? Well, you see, that's where,
that's what happened.
It was not a consolidated thing.
The state had laws for school districts like that,
but the A&M campus was not a school district. Okay.
And the A&M, the budget of the A&M campus gave so
much money to this combination of school
districts. It was just a, it was just an
association. It wasn't, it was legalized by what
the legislature gave the college to give to the
school districts. Were all 11 grades in the same
building? Not then. So you had an elementary
building and a high school? No, we had no schools.
No, I mean on the campus. Well, we had no schools.
They were on the campus, but they were in various
buildings. Oh, okay. Now, where did the teachers
come from? They hired them. But they live on
campus? Uh, yeah, they did, they did. They, uh,
I don't know about those, the younger, I know that,
um,
Ethel Waldron, who was the oldest girl, she told me
one time that, uh, she was in that same building
that I was in, right on the corner. Later on, they
built a white building down here, straight down
south of that. I think they later called it the
Music Hall or something like that.
Now they built that building, this wooden
building. And they built that, and when they did,
they started having us at the regular school. So
you got up and walked a short distance from where
you lived to the school. Dad took me. Dad carried us
in a car. Really? Yeah. I had two sisters, too. As
you think about it now and look back, What was the
quality of the elementary grades you took here on
campus, the first few grades? Was it a good school?
Yes, I guess it was for what they did. I mean, it was
all right. My problem was the fact that
I had astigmatism and I couldn't read. I'm also a
dialectic.
I don't know right from left. And so I was always,
they were always waking me up or doing something, I
don't know, yelling at me. It didn't make any
difference. But we got an education. We got a good
education. In the elementary years, who were some
of your closest buddies? Lucian Morgan,
Charles Ritchie. Ritchie? Ritchie. Ritchie. He
was head of the Civil Engineering Department. And
Dean Bolton, he had a boy. And the FAPS boy, he died.
That's the only one I ever saw that was dead at that
time. But they had, and the Billsies had two boys,
and one of them died. What kind of mischief did you
little boys create? What'd y'all do for pranks?
Oh, there's a, the chemistry department had a
building, a tin building, right back here, behind
me, between the, the old chemistry building And
the Aggie Engineering Building. The Aggie
Engineering Building had a lawn on the front of it.
And it had a filling station over on the right here.
But we would come up there and they had some men
working in there and we'd take a rock and throw up
there and hit it with a tin roof, you know, and they
were working there. I guess they got used to it. Oh,
you were just always around someplace. Another
thing too, there were some old World War I
trenches.
You never heard this story before. There were some
old World War I trenches that we played in. Where
were they?
Going towards College Park, you know, there's a
dip there. Well, they're building that gully. And
they were just like the pictures in it that we're
showing on TV today. Did they use them for
training? I guess they would have. So you all
played in those trenches? Yeah. Yeah, we played in
those. Did y'all ever make any noise in the
academic buildings, you little boys? Our
biggest, or what we did, was
taking, at the end of the semester, they had a
requirement that you had to clean your room and
leave it in good order. The students? Yes,
students. through the hall. We went down those
halls. I walked home with enough alarm clocks.
And I'd take them apart. The other thing was that
they had those old coal
hot stoves. Brown coal oil stoves? Well, there
were usually about four. Oh, okay. There were four
burners. They had this big old jar sitting up on the
end. And so then they would,
I'd go get those. I don't know how I got them home,
but I'd get two or three of those and I'd take them
We'd throw them in the garbage after I got through
Pink Park. Just take all the screws out of them. And
then
my father got me an eighth-inch
pipe. He got me 12-inch lengths of eighth-inch
pipe. elbows, some tees, some caps, some
couplings, and he got that from, and I remember
when he brought it home, and he said, mother, you
got some of my lye? And she said, yeah. And so they
took a big old pan, set it up on that big range, and
filled it with water and he dumped all those in
there. He cleaned all the grease off of them. I
haven't got pieces of those in my farm yet. You
could scroll together like this. And then there
was another one later on was a little what's called
a rector's set. You remember all those? We had
those. We didn't have a lot of toys, but we didn't
have any
radio, TV, or anything. The first time I ever heard
of radio was in 1926. Do you remember, did your
father buy radio then, or what was the occasion?
Occasionally we went down to the Bentley's
apartment on South Bryan Street, about where
Connolly's is today. There was a house in there and
they were renting that house. He was, Bentley was
one of our professors there. And that's the first
time I ever heard a radio. We sat there and listened
to it. Now you had a different society, your
society was entirely different too. Sure. You
had, you had heads of the departments, you had
professors that were working, which in there,
well I guess you, like the Air Force, or like the
Army, you never, we never did go see some of the
help. They had people, white people, who did a lot
of work for us. And they had a lot of Negro people,
too. While you were a little kid, elementary
school, where did your mother in those years,
where did she buy her groceries? From Luke and
Charlie's. Luke and Charlie's? Yeah, Luke and
Charlie's. Where was that? Northgate. Okay, how
big was it? It serviced the whole college. Is that
right? And did they deliver for her? Yeah. Now
you're saying L-U-K-E, Luke, Luke and Charlie.
It's Luke,
I think it's Luke Patronella. Okay. And I don't
remember what the, or Charlie was his last name.
And then occasionally, and then to buy other
things. The bill, the mother ran there about $75 a
month. And then would you go down, would the family
go downtown, Brian, for shopping, other
shopping? A little. But Dad loved to take us
downtown. He's We'd go down there across from the,
where the LaSalle, the Marisco building, on that
street there, on the corner, right there on the
corner across the street. The Watkins men sat
right there on the corner. He had a, he had a, that
with all
those pharmaceuticals. And he was there. Then the
Negroes, they had a wagon yard where the food town
is today, down on North Main Street. That was a
wagon yard. And they came in here on Saturday
night. On Saturday, they came in on Saturday. From
out in the country? Out in the country, all over.
They'd drive a wagon in there. And I guess they
drove it home afterwards or something or
something. Or maybe they stayed there. I don't
know. But they'd always coming out through there.
And then there was white people in there and
everybody else in there. And Dad loved to just sit
there and watch those people. What was the big...
Was there any big department store downtown? Dry
goods store? Oh, yeah. Edges. Edges. Okay. And...
I don't know. What's the name? I don't know. A.M.
Waldrop? A.M. Waldrop, yeah, they were there.
Waldrop's were there, and Edges, well, they
always got a lot of stuff from there. And Lester's
later on came in. How often did the family, or your
mom and dad at least, how often did they go to
Houston or Dallas? Well, uh, In the first few
years, we went to Houston. We would... Would you go
by train or car? No, we went by car. It was a rough
trip. It took about four hours. Three or four
hours. We used to buy stuff at... Foley's? No,
Foley one day. Oh. It was there.
They
used to buy me clothes
there.
It was a store right downtown on Main Street. And we
went there and they bought me pants that looked
like jodhpurs. And that's all I wore for a long
time. And then
my father was head of the Ag Engineering
Department. He had to take care of the entire Ag
Engineering Department. So then the Hardware
Implement Association in Texas, came to the
college and says, can you get us a man to run this
organization?
So they asked Dad to do it. And yeah, that was when
that was. And so he took the job on them. They paid
him an honorarium. I think it was something in the
early days of about $100 a month. In addition to
his... Salary. To his campus responsibilities.
And they gave him a... Did that cause him to travel
much? Oh, a lot of times. A lot of times. He
traveled. And
the reason I remember that, that far back, One day
we were going, and I went with him. He was having a
series of meetings in Waco. And so we drove up
there. I know we were driving there in that 21
Dodge. It took us four hours to get up there. All
gravel roads. like that. And so he, he says, son you
gotta have a pair of long pants.
So we went to Cox's in Waco. He bought me a pair of
long pants. That was the first time I'd ever had a
pair of long pants.
That would be in I would say it was about 1924 or
something like that. That's about when that was.
But his job as Secretary and Treasurer of the
Hardware Association, I traveled with him a lot.
What were the primary implement companies that
were supplying farm implements in those days? Oh,
IEC. International Harvester. John Deere.
Ford. Ford had some things, not that far back. The
first Ford was about 1937. Yeah, but was Farmall
back in the early 20s? No. I thought they were
later, too. When I was teaching, I taught at
Tarleton in 35, 37, and the only one I had was IHC, it
was a hormone. Ford came on a year later, but the
Ford had a lift on the back, which makes it, even
today, my son has one of them. We still keep it in
Kipropa. Were there, were there farm tractors in
the 20s? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Uh, the college got two
oil pools, and then we got one of them stuck out
here, uh, right across from about where their
farm, uh,
you know, Where you get flowers and stuff there. A
horticulture center? No, right there on Old
College Road. Oh, oh, oh. A student was driving and
he lost it and he ran off in a big ditch. We had a hell
of a time pulling that thing out of there. And then
they got an aviary, which is big. I like the aviary
better. It's an easy start. Were Texas farmers
using, that didn't have tractors, did they use
horses or mules? Which did they use most? For
plowing and... Down here, probably with mules.
Mules, mm-hmm. What they had, horses. Up north,
you never, you very seldom saw mules. Now, another
thing about mules is that you put a pair of mules
together and one of them dies, you got it. The other
one won't make up. I don't know why that is, but
that's the truth. And we had one, the college had a
stallion, a horse stallion out of a mule. which
college has, I understand it somewhere. But I used
to, I used him in 37. When I came back in 37, I brought
a horse with me then. I built a trailer and brought a
horse with me. And we used to take him over there.
This is right over here was the horse barn. You know
that? The pavilion. No. The little one right
beside it. Oh, yes, yes. That's a horse bar. The old
pavilion is still there. And then the... Where the
golf course is now was the cow pasture. And then
north of that... All of it was cow pasture. Oh, all
of that was cow pasture. And then the roads out
there, there wasn't any roads out there. They were
just open pasture where the veterinary people
kept their stock In the early 20s, the first years
your family was here, where did you all go to
church? Gone home. And did just about the whole
campus attend? Yeah. Now, who did the sermon?
Reverend Matthews. What denomination was he? I
don't know. Was there Sunday school? Sunday
school. We went to Sunday school. And I was in the
class with Dr. Reed, who was head of the poultry
department. Were there any churches at what we now
call Northgate in the 20s? They started up then.
They started up then. What were the first ones that
you remember? The Methodists and the Baptists.
The Baptists were later. But the first church, the
tabernacle back there, was built by the
Methodists. It is a big old tabernacle. It's a very
big old thing. I mean, it wasn't, it had windows in
it, of course, but it was just a really,
and I had to help get the sewer line in there. And my
father did a lot of that work for these people
around here, but he had several
students
that were quite competent. One was . I worked for
him. We dug a trench across the, from that old
tabernacle, which is right there, where the
church is now, across that street right there. And
it went back into the college system down here
somewhere. I don't know just where it went. You
know, that didn't bother me. When I had to crawl in
those things and check the grade on them, they
thought, oh hell, I was a pretty good engineer
before I was 12 years old. Now, when you arrived,
the campus had its own power system already, and
the sewer system or was on the campus. It had a sewer
system which was mainly aligned to the
to the Brandeis River. They pumped it out there and
pumped it to the river. There's a pipeline down
there someplace. Back to religion, were there
many Catholic or Jewish people here then?
They would have
their meeting places on Sunday. The college
opened up the buildings for them. Then you had a
compulsory sermon for the students. What if they
didn't attend? What happened? They were
disciplined. See, you had a, you had a, just like
you do today, the same thing with the Corps. You had
a Corps commander for each company, and he was
responsible to... For getting them there? I don't
know. Well, he was responsible, yeah, for the
training and also the And then you had, we had 16
army officers here on campus, lived with us. Were
there anyone, was there anyone on campus who had
been a kind of a World War I hero?
No. No, those people we had were real army, a real
army or air. We didn't have any air force. We did
have cavalry. And you see, here's what happened.
They would assign an officer and his family to the
college for four years. if he formed outright. And
they could actually ask for the fifth year if they
wanted to. And so I only saw one man that I know of
that they pulled him off after one year because he
was playing around. When Dr. Bezell went to the
University of Oklahoma, who followed him? Did Is
that when Walton became president? Yeah, I guess
so. What kind of a president was he? Who, Walton?
Mm-hmm. He was a good man. Good man. See, he was a man
that could get up and talk to people. Mm-hmm. That
is the most important part of a professor's life.
His ability to talk and relate to people. Walton
was great at it. His family was... I couldn't say
much more. And... Oh, Ethel Walton, the oldest
girl, married Burgess.
And they formed what's called South Oakwood. and
later they went and formed North Oakwood, which I
have a home. Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. Oh, now, this is
Herschel Burgess? Yeah. Mm-hmm. And where South
Oakwood is now, when you got here, what was it, just
open land? No, it belonged to the,
it belonged to the Shoots. But was it just... It was
a farm. A farm? They had a family down there that
raised crops
in the lower end of it. About when were those
streets laid out? Well, the South Side
Development Company, which is College Park,
the Charter was granted in 1920 or 21. My father was
a part of it. There was Dan Schultz, there was
Lancaster, I don't remember what his first name
was, Dr. Clark, and then there was Burgess, I mean
There was Dorney, and then there was a
man who was like Dr. Fraps. He was in Dr. Fraps's
outfit.
He buried over there. They formed a company and
they bought that land.